[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: I'm gonna
give you a series of problems.
A problem might look like this.
>> Douglas Crockford: Write an identity
function that takes an argument and
returns that argument.
And I'll show an example of
how you would call it and
what the result of that call would be.
I will then give you
some time to work on it.
Probably about ten minutes or so.
Some of you are gonna work
faster than others, so for
those of you who finish quickly,
you're gonna get frustrated,
because you're gonna have to wait for
the time before we go on.
And for some of you are gonna be working
slower, and you're gonna get frustrated
cuz you might not have enough
time to finish every problem.
So, my goal today is to frustrate
everybody equally, okay?
That's where we're gonna
be going with this.
So, you'll take some time,
you'll work on the problem,
you'll come up with the solution.
I will then show you my solution.
And in some cases,
I may show you multiple solutions and
you can compare yours with mine.
If you like mine better than yours,
you want to record it,
because each of these later problems
will refer to earlier problems.
Either in pattern or we'll actually
be calling the earlier functions,
so make sure that you get at least
one version of everything that works.
Also, I highly recommend that you use
exactly the same function names that I do,
because later we're gonna write functions
which call these functions, and if you're
giving them different names, it'll be
really easy to get confused, okay?
>> Douglas Crockford: Then
you'll probably want to test it.
If you have a JavaScript engine on your
machine and how to use it, for example,
if you have Node installed and you know
how to use the repo, that's great.
You can just plug it in there,
and it'll work.
If you don't,
you have at least one web browser.
And all the web browsers now come
with very nice debuggers, so
you can do that as well.
This is one way to use a web browser.
You could simply have a form like this,
or a page containing a script tag.
For my convenience, I created a log
function so I could log results,
and it'll just write them to the screen.
Then in the box,
I've got the function that I wrote, and
then I called the function
sending the result to the log.
If you wanna do something
more sophisticated,
you're certainly welcome to do that.
This is sort of the minimum
that you need to get started.
You don't have to test your functions,
but you probably want to, right?
Cuz otherwise you can't have confidence
that they're working correctly.
While everybody is still getting set up,
we're gonna do a quiz.
Pop quiz.
So here we go, ready?
Question number one,
we have a function called funky.
It takes an argument o, sets o to null.
We create a global variable x, which
is an empty array, we pass x to funky.
What is now the value of x?
So who thinks x is null?
And who thinks x is the empty array?
And who thinks it's undefined?
And who thinks it'll throw an exception?
Okay, the answer is B, the empty array.
So let's look at what's happening here.
So if we start off, we have the global
variable x that points at the array.
We pass the contents of x,
which is that reference to funky,
which has it bound to o.
We replace o with null.
And then there you are.
So funky, as written,
is a completely useless function.
And in this thing about the way variables
work is not peculiar to JavaScript.
Almost all modern languages work this way.
Most languages do not allow you to
pass a reference to a variable.
What they allow you to do is to
pass a reference to the contents of
the variable, okay.
ALGOL 60, which was a brilliant language,
had something in it called,
call by name, where you actually
could pass a reference to a variable.
That was one of the very few,
very bad ideas in ALGOL 60.
Ready for another one?
Okay, here's a function swap,
takes two arguments a and b, and
it swaps them using a temp variable.
We have two global variables,
x and y, whose values are 1 and 2.
We pass x and y to swap,
what is now the value of x?
>> Douglas Crockford: So
who thinks x is 1?
Who thinks x is 2?
Okay I'm not gonna fool you this time.
The answer is 1.
And it's similar to what we did before.
So here we've got our two global
variables, x and y, that point to 1 and 2.
We pass x and y to swap.
Then we fiddle them around with swap, but
that did not change what x and
y are doing.
I'm hoping that some day in the future,
JavaScript gets macros.
So instead of saying function swap,
I'd say macro swap.
And in that case, macros do get called or
do get passed with variable names, and
macro swap would be useful thing, but as
written, function swap is pretty useless.
Okay, any questions about the quiz?
Okay, quiz is done.
It's time to do some real work,
are you ready?
So the first one is going to
be totally trivial, no tricks,
it's just something to allow
you to test your environment.
So write three binary functions.
A binary function is a function
that takes two arguments.
Add, sub and mul, that take two numbers
and return their sum, difference and
product, okay.
This is as trivial as it sounds.
There are no tricks.
We're doing this so
that you can practice and also so
that we'll have functions that functions
that we write later will be able to call.
So here we have add, first and mul.
I assume that everybody got this, right?
Yes, who got this?
Yeah, if you didn't, write it down because
you're going to need these for later.
Okay, ready for
the first interesting problem of the day?
Here we go.
Write a function identityf
that takes an argument and
returns a function that
returns that argument.
So, we're gonna call it identityf,
we're gonna pass it 3.
That will return a function.
When we call that function,
it will return 3.
So, here is identityf.
identityf takes an argument and returns
a function that returns that argument.
So who got identityf?
Very good.
If you didn't get it, write it down,
because you gotta
definitely need it later.
And don't be discouraged, I'm not
expecting everybody to get every problem.
What I'm expecting is that
everybody gets the last problem.
Okay, so if you don't see what's going
on immediately, just stay with it.
Eventually the patterns should
start to become clearer and
you'll get a sense of where we're going,
okay?
Any questions so far?
Okay, are we ready for the next one?
Okay, write a function addf
that adds from two invocations.
So if we pass a 3 to addf,
it would return a function.
If we pass 4 to that function,
it will return 7.
So here is addf.
addf takes a first argument, it returns
a function that takes the second argument
and it returns the result of calling
the first and second argument.
So who got addf?
Okay, very good.
If you didn't get it, write it down.
You're gonna wanna need it for
the next one.
So this problem was suggested
to me by Dmitry Baranovskiy,
who is a brilliant Ukrainian
programmer living in Sydney, Australia.
He's the author of RaphaelJS, a very
nice graphics package for the browser.
He suggested that this should be a hiring
question, and if you got this right,
maybe you think so, too.
So we ready for the next one?
>> Douglas Crockford: Okay, here we go.
Write a function liftf that
takes a binary function and
makes it callable with two invocations.
So, if we pass the add function that
we wrote the first thing this morning
to liftf,
it returns a function that works exactly
like the addf function that we just wrote.
And to make it even more interesting,
we can pass other binary functions,
like the multiply function, and
get a similar kind of capability.
Let's look at liftf.
Liftf takes a binary function, returns
a function that takes a first argument,
that returns a function that takes a
second argument, that returns a result of
passing the first and
second arguments to the binary function.
So who got liftf?
Very good.
If you didn't get it, write it down.
You're gonna want to need it for
a later one.
This is an example of
a higher order function.
Higher order functions are functions that
receive other functions as parameters and
return other functions as results.
So we're starting to get moving
down the rabbit hole into a very
interesting way of constructing things.